# Introduction
Data aligning describes the process by which relations and classes from two databases are mapped to each other. Many alignment approaches have been developed with different strength and weaknesses which makes it hard to compare them. Nevertheless, to be able to highlight different characteristics and support the development of such systems, various benchmark systems have been developed.

## Classic Alignment Bechmark Systems
While benchmark systems have been developed for several tasks, e.g. ontology or schema alignment, there are no such systems for the alignment of RDF knowledge bases (KB) and RESTful Web APIs (denoted simply as APIs from now on). When it comes to data aligning, APIs have become increasingly important over time since they provide a direct connection to the (usually) most recent data of a data provider.

The alignment of KB and APIs brings new challenges in addition to the traditional ones. The access of APIs is usually realized by using HTTP GET requests and is restricted in terms of latencies, timeouts between requests and a maximum number of requests (rate limit). HTTP GET requests contain (input) values such as an internal ID or a movie title. If the requested information (e.g., actors of a movie) of the given entity is unknown to the API, usually an HTTP error code or a response containing an error message is returned. This confronts alignment systems with the challenge to filter between valid responses and error messages. Additionally, traditional alignment challenges, i.e. how two different schemes can be aligned, remain as well.

Benchmark systems clearly help during the development of an alignment system. However, current state-of-the-art benchmark systems (e.g., [MELT](https://github.com/dwslab/melt) and [HOBBIT](https://project-hobbit.eu)) are not able to cover specific challenges that arise when aligning databases and APIs. Hence, alignment systems use well-known real world APIs for their evaluation. Although this seems like an appropriate approach, it prevents the reproducibility of the results since the data and the schema of APIs will evolve over time, which makes results hard or even impossible to reproduce and to compare.

## Contribution
The main contribution of this paper is the ETARA (**E**valuation **T**oolkit for **A**PI and **R**DF **A**lignment) benchmark system. ETARA was created to simulate RESTful Web APIs and is able cover all important characteristics of APIs, i.e., latency, timeouts, rate limits and provides configurable response structures (e.g. JSON or XML). It was designed to be easy to use, so that existing alignment systems can easily integrate ETARA. It provides a set of databases (of different domains, e.g., bibliographic, filmographic, etc.) and response structures which follow the [FAIR](https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/) design principles. Moreover, it provides tools to create custom response templates or modify provided ones. It is designed as open-source project and can be deployed locally or on a server. Additionally, it provides a well-known and established alignment visualization, namely alignment cubes, that supports interactive views on different levels of granularity. The target audience are developers and researchers of alignment systems that want to perform reproducible evaluations. Additionally, ETARA provides a component to create gold standard alignments that can be used to evaluate the results of alignment systems.

[Next: Component Overview](https://github.com/ETARA-Benchmark-System/.github/blob/main/profile/component_overview.md)
